Publish minutes of 2024-09-23 - 2024-09-27 TPAC meetings (#704)
hober/web-extensions: _minutes/2024-09-24-wecg-tpac.md

 * [devlin] That's what it will likely end up being. Hopeful we won't collide, but should communicate to devs that if it happens it doesn't necessarily mean anything.
 * [simeon] A challenge there is that there is no reliable way to distinguish browsers.
 * [devlin] Almost no developer should be using this API unless they really want to use this API. Separately, I appreciate the challenge of identifying the browser, we should discuss how to address it later.
 * [carlos] Reliable way is to check the protocol of the origin (chrome-extension, moz-extension, etc.)
 * [oliver] Even more so, between browser engines we should give heads-up. E.g. no two Chromium forks with the same name.
 * [devlin] My stance is that if extension developers are using these APIs, they should exactly know what they are doing. It should target specific browsers.
 * [patrick] The idea is that these APIs would not be added to main extensions.
 * [rob] As an extension developer, I often look for a way to accomplish my goal and will use whatever API is available to accomplish it.

>  * [patrick] You can shave your face with a chainsaw, but that doesn't make it a good idea.

Reviewer: I wonder if we should drop this line. I'm not sure if it needs to be in the notes 😅

   * [timothy] Focusing the tab focuses whatever frame was focused last.
   * [devlin] Allowing developers to control focus very directly can potentially cause clickjacking issues.
   * [simeon] Jackie mentioned that the sidebar is not focused when it is opened. I don't think that we need a general API to focus the sidepanel.
   * [timothy] Opening again should be OK.
   * [oliver] If there is a field in a page, and you close the sidepanel, it does not focus the input field again. I would expect some focus to be remembered.
   * [devlin] I would envision this to be an API on tabs, not sidepanel.
   * [simeon] Focus here is on focusing the window, not the sidepanel.
   * [rob] I think that we do not need to specify the focus behavior too closely, following the defaults of the browser would make sense.
   * [rob] If the address bar was focused and you call this method, what happens?
   * [devlin] It focuses the main content in the tab (document tree in Chrome, webview in Safari) - whatever was the active frame is focused.
   * [oliver] Same question with popup.
   * [devlin] I expect the popup to be closed.

>    *

Reviewer: Nit: Remove line.

   * [rob] Might not always have a URL or tab.
   * [rob] userScripts API does not support match_origin_as_fallback.
   * [devlin] We could add it to the userScripts API too.
   * [oliver] Another option is a method to get contexts that have been injected into, which would take some kind of context parameter.
   * [devlin] Tophf proposed get matching IDs for a URL, you noted that URL is insufficient to target. Is there an  alternative?
   * [rob] I suggested more targeting information.
   * [devlin] Sounds like you're saying “given this set of conditions, what scripts would be injected?” But that's not quite what's being requested. They don't want to guess what might be injected, but to know what has been injected.
   * [rob] Match patterns and glob patterns could help. A script may match but not inject. Devlin noted that match origin as fallback is not supported, but could be.
   * [devlin] Even if we add match patterns and glob patterns and so on, but the use case is to know what has been injected. Asking the developer to climb the frame tree to get all the context, that sounds unnecessarily complex.

>    * [oliver] We've discussed getContexts in the past. If we did that for both content and user scripts, would that address it?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * [oliver] We've discussed getContexts in the past. If we included both content and user scripts, would that address it?
```

   * [devlin] With user scripts there can be multiple injected in separate worlds in the same page.
   * [rob] When a script is injected, there's no trace.
   * [devlin] Impl detail, you could trace it.
   * [rob] Stepping back, are we in all inclined to add a method that returns whether scripts are injected in a specific frame/document?
   * [devlin] Should either have two places or a unified method. Setting aside the namespace and method name, we should have a way to get the scripts that are injected into a given frame/tab/frametree/etc. We should figure out naming, namespacing, properties, etc. later.
   * **Action item**: Devlin to reply on the issue [[done](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/646#issuecomment-2374746743)]
 * [Issue 533](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/533): Enhance browser.storage.local to allow storing binary data directly

>    * [oliver] Session storage is different.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * [oliver] As a note, session storage is unique in Chrome. Due to how we implemented it we do support a larger range of data types than we do in other storage areas.
```

   * [oliver] So we are neutral?
   * [devlin] No inherent objection to it, but I don't know if we are going to do it anytime soon.
   * [oliver] [Commented](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/533#issuecomment-2372558594).
 * [Issue 534](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/534): Inconsistency with indexedDB in browser extensions
   * [devlin] (reading issue description out loud)
   * [devlin] Sounds like Firefox is effectively running permanently in incognito mode when “Never remember history” is enabled.
   * [rob] Yes.
   * [oliver] I'm not familiar with never remember history. If I went to 3 sites and went to the History viewer, I wouldn't expect to see data.
   * [rob] Extensions are not enabled in private by default. Never remember history is a sort of permanent private browsing.
   * [devlin] I think Oliver is mostly saying the naming is weird.
   * [devlin] What's the right behavior for extensions with web storage in private / regular mode for Safari. I don't like the idea of clearing web storage outside of Incognito mode.
   * [rob] That's not what the table in the issue is saying.

>    * [timothy] Safari clears IndexedDB data when an origin is not used after 10 days.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * [timothy] Safari clears IndexedDB data when an origin is not used after 7 days.
```

   * [devlin] we warn on browser_specific_settings because we don't support it. Developers try to specify it expecting it to … Sorry, was thinking browser overrides, not browser specific settings.
   * [rob] Would you consider not warning on browser_specific_settings?
   * [timothy] Safari also uses it.
   * [devlin] Open to it.
   * [devlin] Back to this issue, hesitant to support arbitrary fields used by some random tools. Worried about proliferation of everyone's pet keys.
   * [timothy] $schema is a standard.
   * [tomislav] Agreed with reasoning.
   * [devlin] If this is used by a large amount of the community, I'm in favor of ignoring it.
   * [rob] So we are committing to maintaining a list of intentionally recognized properties even if ignored, starting with browser_specific_settings and $schema.
   * [devlin] Yes.
   * [rob] There is already a Chromium issue for this at https://issues.chromium.org/issues/40196501.
   * **Resolution**: Agreement that $schema should not be warned about.
   * **Resolution**: Chrome to intentionally ignore browser_specific_settings and $schema instead of warning.

>      * [rob] Note: Oliver is starting to work on a patch to do this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     * [rob] Note: This is now implemented in Chrome: https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/507#issuecomment-2384073091
```

Author: While this is true now, this was not the case at the time that the comment was made.

Reviewer: There are enough retrospective notes in this doc that I'm not concerned about that.
